1. A metric ton is 35,273.92 ounces. Write a program that will read the weight of a
package of breakfast cereal in ounces and output the weight in metric tons as well
as the number of boxes needed to yield one metric ton of cereal.

2. A government research lab has concluded that an artificial sweetener commonly
used in diet soda will cause death in laboratory mice. A friend of yours is desperate
to lose weight but cannot give up soda. Your friend wants to know how much diet
soda it is possible to drink without dying as a result. Write a program to supply
the answer. The input to the program is the amount of artificial sweetener needed
to kill a mouse, the weight of the mouse, and the weight of the dieter. To ensure
the safety of your friend, be sure the program requests the weight at which the
dieter will stop dieting, rather than the dieter’s current weight. Assume that diet
soda contains one-tenth of 1% artificial sweetener. Use a variable declaration with
the modifier const to give a name to this fraction. You may want to express the
percentage as the double value 0.001 .

3. Workers at a particular company have won a 7.6% pay increase retroactive for six
months. Write a program that takes an employee’s previous annual salary as input
and outputs the amount of retroactive pay due the employee, the new annual
salary, and the new monthly salary. Use a variable declaration with the modifier
const to express the pay increase.

4. Negotiating a consumer loan is not always straightforward. One form of loan is the
discount installment loan, which works as follows. Suppose a loan has a face value
of $1,000, the interest rate is 15%, and the duration is 18 months. The interest is
computed by multiplying the face value of $1,000 by 0.15, yielding $150. That
figure is then multiplied by the loan period of 1.5 years to yield $225 as the total
interest owed. That amount is immediately deducted from the face value, leaving
the consumer with only $775. Repayment is made in equal monthly installments
based on the face value. So the monthly loan payment will be $1,000 divided
by 18, which is $55.56. This method of calculation may not be too bad if the
consumer needs $775 dollars, but the calculation is a bit more complicated if the
consumer needs $1,000. Write a program that will take three inputs: the amount
the consumer needs to receive, the interest rate, and the duration of the loan in
months. The program should then calculate the face value required in order for
the consumer to receive the amount needed. It should also calculate the monthly
payment.

5. Write a program that determines whether a meeting room is in violation of fire law
regulations regarding the maximum room capacity. The program will read in the
maximum room capacity and the number of people to attend the meeting. If the
number of people is less than or equal to the maximum room capacity, the program
announces that it is legal to hold the meeting and tells how many additional people
may legally attend. If the number of people exceeds the maximum room capacity,
the program announces that the meeting cannot be held as planned due to fire
regulations and tells how many people must be excluded in order to meet the fire
regulations.

6. An employee is paid at a rate of $16.78 per hour for regular hours worked in a
week. Any hours over that are paid at the overtime rate of one and one-half times
that. From the worker’s gross pay, 6% is withheld for Social Security tax, 14% is
withheld for federal income tax, 5% is withheld for state income tax, and $10 per
week is withheld for union dues. If the worker has three or more dependents, then
an additional $35 is withheld to cover the extra cost of health insurance beyond
what the employer pays. Write a program that will read in the number of hours
worked in a week and the number of dependents as input and that will then output
the worker’s gross pay, each withholding amount, and the net take-home pay for
the week.

7. One way to measure the amount of energy that is expended during exercise is to
use metabolic equivalents (MET). Here are some METS for various activities:
Running 6 MPH: 10 METS
Basketball: 8 METS
Sleeping: 1 MET
The number of calories burned per minute may be estimated using the formula
Calories/Minute = 0.0175 × 1 MET × (Weight in kilograms)
Write a program that inputs a subject’s weight in pounds, the number of METS
for an activity, and the number of minutes spent on that activity, and then outputs
an estimate for the total number of calories burned. One kilogram is equal
to 2.2 pounds.

8. The Babylonian algorithm to compute the square root of a positive number n is as
follows:
1. Make a guess at the answer (you can pick n/2 as your initial guess).
2. Compute r = n / guess .
3. Set guess = (guess + r) / 2 .
4. Go back to step 2 for as many iterations as necessary. The more steps 2 and 3
are repeated, the closer guess will become to the square root of n .
Write a program that inputs a double for n , iterates through the Babylonian algorithm
five times, and outputs the answer as a double to two decimal places. Your
answer will be most accurate for small values of n .
9. The video game machines at your local arcade output coupons depending on how
well you play the game. You can redeem 10 coupons for a candy bar or 3 coupons
for a gumball. You prefer candy bars to gumballs. Write a program that inputs the
number of coupons you win and outputs how many candy bars and gumballs you
can get if you spend all of your coupons on candy bars first and any remaining
coupons on gumballs.

10. Write a program that allows the user to enter a time in seconds and then outputs
how far an object would drop if it is in freefall for that length of time. Assume no
friction or resistance from air and a constant acceleration of 32 feet per second due
to gravity. Use the equation
Distance = 12
* acceleration * time2

11. Write a program that inputs an integer that represents a length of time in seconds.
The program should then output the number of hours, minutes, and seconds that
corresponds to that number of seconds. For example, if the user inputs 50391 total
seconds then the program should output 13 hours, 59 minutes, and 51 seconds.

12. A simple rule to estimate your ideal body weight is to allow 110 pounds for the first 5
feet of height and 5 pounds for each additional inch. Write a program with a variable
for the height of a person in feet and another variable for the additional inches and
input values for these variables from the keyboard. Assume the person is at least 5 feet
tall. For example, a person that is 6 feet and 3 inches tall would be represented with
a variable that stores the number 6 and another variable that stores the number 3.
Based on these values calculate and output the ideal body weight.